- An [interactive online essay](http://worrydream.com/LearnableProgramming/) by [Bret Victor]([http://worrydream.com/LearnableProgramming/](http://worrydream.com/#!/Bio)) about ... learnable programming
- Victor's response to Khan
  id:: 63fe150f-e253-4a4b-921c-8ce09ac5c995
  collapsed:: true
	- **Programming is a way of thinking, not a rote skill.** Learning about "for" loops is not learning to program, any more than learning about pencils is learning to draw.
	- **People understand what they can see.** If a programmer cannot see what a program is doing, she can't understand it.
	- Thus, the goals of a programming system should be:
		- to support and encourage powerful ways of thinking
		- to enable programmers to see and understand the execution of their programs
		  id:: 63fe152d-e960-4efb-ba0d-a8a048b6bdc9
	- A live-coding Processing environment addresses neither of these goals. JavaScript and Processing are poorly-designed languages that support weak ways of thinking, and ignore decades of learning about learning. And live coding, as a standalone feature, misses the point.
	- Alan Perlis wrote, *"To understand a program, you must become both the machine and the program."* This view is a mistake, and it is this widespread and virulent mistake that keeps programming a difficult and obscure art. A person is not a machine, and should not be forced to think like one.
	  id:: 63fe1533-0b10-423e-a6ae-0ec0a2e82233
	- *How do we get people to understand programming?*
	- We change programming. We turn it into something that's understandable by people.
- #question - Can these ideas be reconciled with each other and with [[Notional Machine]]s?
	- {{embed ((63fe152d-e960-4efb-ba0d-a8a048b6bdc9))}}
	- {{embed ((63fe1533-0b10-423e-a6ae-0ec0a2e82233))}}
- responses
	- https://maggieappleton.com/learnable-programming