tags:: phase1a

- "_Learning to read_ to _read to learn_".  is this really a thing?  how does(?) it translate to programming?
	- reading is not creating text, while programming is
- [[Integrating Ethics into Introductory Programming Classes]]:
	- this article describes coding to learn about ethics, but also mentions that difficulty with coding can distract from the ethics
- references
	- [counterpoint](https://www.educationcorner.com/learning-to-read-to-read-to-learn.html)
		- id:: 6401b4d4-2abd-4712-bd45-b44dd4860da3
		  > Research now shows that "Learning to Read" and "Reading to Learn" should occur (1) simultaneously and (2) continually throughout a child's elementary and secondary years of education. (citations?)
		- > Fundamental decoding and sight-word skills, supposedly developed during grades K–3, should continue to be emphasized and taught as students confront more challenging information, text, and literature associated with new content areas and academic disciplines.
		- > Children that are "good readers" typically possess fundamental reading skills AND have a little bit of knowledge about different things.
			- programming exists very differently in different domains, and expertise programming in one domain does not promise expertise in another.
				- #todo find back the citation about experts in one domain being measured as novices in another
- i wonder about [[Coding to Learn]]
	- "_Learning to code_ to _coding to learn_" - does this analogy even hold? or might it only apply to reading programs, not writing them?   #question
	- does the [[Spiral Curriculum]] & [[Spiderweb Curriculum]] support [simultaneous and continual development](((6401b4d4-2abd-4712-bd45-b44dd4860da3))) of both LtR & RtL?  how is this even measured?  #question
	- in programming does the RtL half refer to learning more about good programs by reading them, or learning more about the domain? #question [[Block Model]]
	- how does [naming things](((6400a7e1-aa84-44b0-862a-eb675e2ec335))) interact with CtL-LtC? #question