alias:: Representative Course

- working title
	- derived from "model organism"
	- alternatives: "representative course" from "representative sample"
- any computing course participating in research and with a close [proximity]([[Proximity and Innovation: a Critical Assessment]]) to those you'd like to reach with your work.
	- How could you measure the proximity of two courses? you would need to account for learning objectives, practical constraints, learner & educator profile, ... and different [[Proximities]] would need to be weighted differently depending on the research questions.  #question [[DARE]]
	- (a lot of these ideas are inspired by my experience doing R&D work in small bootcamps)
- A [[Model Course]] is first and foremost a course, the quality of education must come first
	- each learner & educator can engage with the research side of the course as much or little as they're interested/able
	- {{embed ((63f75350-4779-410a-b9f0-168cab1faf2a))}}
- "Model Course" is an adjective, not a title.  A course could temporarily be a RC if it is participating in study, or could be set up with this in mind
- MC's are designed to be [[Trading Zone]].  They should be welcoming of any unexpected source of collaboration that stands to benefit learners.
- MC's can be hosted many ways:
	- a [[Computing Education Research Center]] may host them as outreach and to help build community within CER
	- [[Translational Research Programmes]] may host them for longitudinal studies, especially helpful for #phase/2 #phase/4
	- they may be hosted elsewhere, perhaps by a school, with additional support from researchers
- the research coordinator(s) should handle the infrastructure for data collection and analysis.  contributing should be minimal extra effort for educators
	- a "permanent" MC run by a [[Computing Education Research Center]] or other organization could even have experimental support integrated in it's physical and digital infrastructure
- a MC is not just an extended [[Research-Practice Partnership]]
	- I understand research-practice partnerships to be more scoped collaborations between specific researchers and practitioners
	- while an MC is a course equipped for more general research, where a variety of overlapping and staggered research projects can take place
- when possible MC's should practice [[Participatory Computing Education Research]]. after all, as a researcher you are intervening in someone's learner
	- when not, there should be a valid experimental reason
- learners can opt in or out of experiments with full transparency and clear expectations
	- how to account for this self-selection? #question
	- how to handle consent? are some sorts of experiments "covered" by joining the MC in the first place, while others require specific consent? #question
	- [[Action Research in Education: Addressing Gaps in Ethical Principles and Practices]]
- it's not possible to be a "general model course" because there is not such thing as a "general learning context".
	- it would be necessary to have many MC's, one for each context you would like to study
- MC's could be paying for learners if this is representative of your target context.  a paying MC (or parallel paid course) could help support the research
	-