- **how** **you will keep your work going**:
	- **Target Reach:** *How wide or deep you want your impact to be*. Will you aim to affect more people? More of the environment? Will you aim to impact additional aspects of the problem for your initial population? Some combination of the above?
	- **Revenue Model:** *Your approach to bringing in money to cover expenses such as staff, raw materials, etc*. Will you sell a product or service? Will you charge the same amount to everyone? Will you pursue donations or grants?
	- **Input Efficiency:** *How you will produce more impact for the same amount of money or materials*. Will increased production decrease per-unit costs? Are you able to shift some aspects of your work to other people or organizations that can do it more effectively? Will better technology improve staff productivity?
	- As always,** evidence or statistics** to support your choices in the previous three items. Often, this evidence includes your results to date as much as external sources.
-
- decisions to make based on video - build a revenue model
	- financial viability and impact scalability are linked
	- what benefits are we offering? *how much does it cost to provide them?*
	- be efficient with the resources you have
	- will our revenue strategy work as we scale?
	- what scale will we target?
		- more people with more general offering?
		- fewer people with more specific offering?
		- how will our revenue model need to adapt as we reach our scale?
	- how do our specific offerings influence our scaling options?
	- how might we evolve over time?
		- *vertical:* offering more services to the same population
		- *horizontal:* offering a similar service to more populations
- answers
	- our solution and design process will specifically target disadvantaged learners & educators working outside of formal education under limited resources
		- however, we believe that accessible design is good design.
		- so by targeting this audience, we believe our solutions will also serve in more advantaged contexts that we did not design for
	- at this point we plan to scale vertically, offering more robust and comprehensive solutions for vocational programming education.  because
		- this segment is underserved by computing education
		- this target has the potential to benefit the livelihoods of many people and their families
		- we believe our solution becomes non-linearly useful the more comprehensive it becomes - the easier we can make it for users to work their way higher up our chart the better off they will be
	- instructional design is an operational asset, efficient use of learner and educator time also impacts cost not just product quality
		- this is one of the secret sauces for our own courses
		- and one of our USPs for consulting clients
	- the cost of supporting our free resources grows sublinearly with adoption.
		- the more users we have, the more time we may need to spend on slack/discord and the more issues/PRs we may need to address.  but
		- but also, it's no difference to us is 10 or 1000 people install our tools or use our content
	- we will fund our free open source products through a combination of
		- income from our paid services
		- donations or grants to our non-profit
			- no money from donations or grants will go to support our paid services
		- research partnerships
	- what responsibilities could we transfer to someone else?