- TODO data: what kind? how to find?
	- Impact
		- educators / schools
		- learners
			- independent continuing education
			- blocked hours of self-study
	- Market
		- student-paying [[CE]] market cap
			- online courses
			- bootcamps
			- (community) colleges
		- school/educator investments and expenditures on content & professional trainings
			- public/private secondary schools
			- (community) colleges
			- bootcamps
			- private tutors
-
- # Impact Opportunity
	- *the harm to people or environment*
	- *causes or effects on people, is the harm increasing or decreasing?*
	- *how many people are affected, which segment will I focus on?*
	- *are there other stakeholders interested in addressing this?*
	- Impact opportunity expresses the potential that a solution has to improve people’s lives. While market opportunity focuses on possible revenue, impact opportunity considers both the possible positive change that a solution can have as well as profit. There are many ways to describe an impact opportunity, since social enterprises can take many forms. Our approach is to ask the four most important questions you'll need to answer in order to refine your understanding of the good you can do.
		- ***What is the problem you want to solve?*** - #[[Problem Statement]]
			- *Define a **specific problem **– for example, the ill effects of pollution that harms people or the environment, an unmet need for healthcare, or an inequity in a system that reduces options available to a disadvantaged group of people.*
		- ***How big is the problem?*** - overall scale
			- *Consider the size of the overall problem--a given city or a segment of the population; national, regional, or global scale--then select the** scale **at which you aim to make a difference. Thinking about scale will get you thinking about whom you aim to serve and will shape your business model plans.*
		- ***Why does the problem exist?*** - persistence of problem?
			- *Refine your thinking about the cause of this problem so that you can arrive at your basic explanation of **why the problem exists or persists**.*
				- incentives in academic research are not for translation
				- inertia in teaching techniques
				- good enough results without improvements
		- **How do we *know* that this is a problem at this scale with these causes?** - supporting data
			- *Gather **evidence or statistics** to support the previous three items. Look for any external data you can find--just a few key pieces of evidence--that will help you to back up your statement. It can be qualitative, quantitative, general, or specific.*
	- Examples
		- [Symbrosia](https://solve.mit.edu/challenges/sustainable-food-systems/solutions/31532/application)
			- clear
			- succinct
			- urgent
			- hyperlinks
		-
-
- # Market Opportunity
	- *size of market*
	- *growing, stable, in decline*
	- *about the overall industry*
	- *segments & demographic*
	- *will demand for my offer grow or shrink?*