-
- [the course](https://openlearninglibrary.mit.edu/courses/course-v1:MITx+0.SolveX+2T2021/course/)
-
- # 4 questions a social entrepreneur needs to tackle:
	- **Impact Opportunity**: How much good could I do, in both the short and long term?
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- **Customer Discovery**: Who does my solution serve, and in what ways will the solution impact their lives?
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- **Theory of Change**: How can I check that what I do will actually drive positive change?
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- **Planning for Scale**: If my approach is sound, how can I expand the overall impact? *Social innovators often have multiple options for reaching many people.*
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
-
- Throughout our course, we lean heavily on three principles for developing, describing, or evaluating new solutions:
	- Cite evidence to back up any assertions
	- Understand and check your assumptions
	- Look at existing people and organizations doing similar work
-
- # Learning Goals
	- Describe four key social business concepts: Impact Opportunity, Customer Discovery, Theory of Change, and Strategy for Scale.
	- Critically evaluate the core concepts of a social enterprise and sharpen your ability to uncover key assumptions as well as the evidence needed to support those assumptions.
	- Gain confidence in your ability to identify and address social and environmental problems, and feel more equipped to invest in your own ideas and build your own effort.
-
- # Week-by-Week Structure
	- Every week, you will explore video, text, and interviews with entrepreneurs. Here's an outline of the course:
	- **Introductions**: We introduce the course, our instructor, and some key terms for talking about entrepreneurship and innovation.
	- **Impact Opportunity**: How might solving a particular problem impact others' lives? We look at the potential for short-term effects and larger-scale impacts you hope to create. We'll contrast this Impact Opportunity with what many traditional entrepreneurs call Market Opportunity, mentioning the importance of evidence to support the ideas you are advancing.
		- Define market opportunity and impact opportunity.
		- Identify key components of an impact opportunity statement.
		- Analyze several impact opportunity statements and identify areas in them for improvement.
	- **Customer Discovery: **Whom does my solution serve, and in what ways will the solution impact their lives?  We will look at how to use evidence to better adapt your offering to your customers.
	- **Theory of Change**: Sharpen your description of how your solution could actually impact your identified problem. What will you do, and why do you think it will work? We'll focus on describing the chain of changes that you intend to spark with your actions and share some pointers for identifying and checking your key assumptions.
		- [[ACE]]
	- **Strategy for Scale**: Given your potentially impactful solution, we turn to what you need to consider in planning to increase that impact. We'll talk about the need for improving effective use of money and other resources, revenue models, and various ways that different organizations have used to scale their impact.
	- **Pitch**: Putting all four concepts together, we'll wrap up the course by talking about pitching your idea, both in writing and in quick videos. The three core concepts create a good basic pitch by answering three main questions: What problem are you solving? What do you do and why will it work? How will you do more in the future?
-