- Moving from beginner-friendly programming environments like Scratch to "authentic" programming environments isn't about moving from visual and user-friendly to rainbow-colored text on a blank screen.  Professional development environments can be just as visual and helpful as scratch.
- The difference is what students are programming:
	- Scratch creates videos, art, and games, so students write instructions for the Scratch application to generate these animations.
	- 'Authentic' programming is for interacting directly with data stored in the computer's memory system via a programming language, so programmers write instructions for the computer directly on how to manipulate the memory system over time.
- "Authentic" programming environments can be just as visual and supportive as Scratch, it's just that they are designed to support a very different task.  Scratch is so intuitive because the objective is intuitive - creating videos and games.  Programming is challenging to learn because the objective (instructing a computer to manipulate data) is abstract and novel.
- ## From Animations to Data
	- Transitioning away from Turtles and Scratch really means transitioning away from programming graphics to programming data.  Students proficient in most blocks-based editors have mastered how to conceive of a visual objective and how to make that vision come true.
	- Learning more practical programming skills doesn't mean replacing blocks with text, it means replacing animations with data.  This transition is a substantial jump in abstraction and novelty.  For a student to know what they are coding, they need to be able to concieve of a challenge as data and to find solutions in the data-space that can be translated back to the real world.
	- This requires a certain level of computational thinking that takes time to develop and does not come easily to all students.  Helping your stuents discover these skills is crucial for teaching effective programming, but programming requires more than just logical thinking.
- ## This is not Computational Thinking
	- Comptuational thinking is necessary to successfully apply programming to real-world challenges, but is not necessary for mastering the toolset of a programmer. The transition from beginner environments to more authentic programming environments is an independant and parallel journey from developing algorithmic reasing. It is wholely possible to master a programming language and environment without having the slightest idea how to do something useful with it.
	- The techniques and tools presented here are not designed to develop computational thinking skills.  There is already an abundance of on and off-line activities designed to help students develop their logical problem solving.  What's more often missing are very practical resources on how to help students master the mechanics of programming to a level that they can focus freely on real-world problems without struggling too much with implementation.
- ## Focus on Program Execution
	- To prepare students for 'authentic' programming and environments you must first help them build an intuition for how computers & programming languages step through their execution, incrementally changing memory.
	- Moving your students from blocks to typing code is actually not necessary to achieve this learning objective.  How students generate their code isn't what's important, it's understanding how the program evolves over time as it executes their instructions that counts.
	- Being able to trace through code, predict values in memory at different points in execution, and locating bugs are far more important skills than being able type code from a blank page.
- ## Be Patient with Blocks
	- Choosing to stick to blocks doesn't mean your students aren't progressing. The main reason blocks aren't used by experienced developers has more to do with efficiency than anything else.  Once you're comfortable with a keyboard, typing & text manipulation is simply faster and more flexible using blocks and it fits better on a screen.
	- In fact blocks can be very helpful by allowing students to focus on how the the problem at hand and how their code is executed instead of spending their effort remembering syntax and fighting avoidable errors. Forcing students off of blocks before they're ready can be unhelpful, distracting from more important learning objectives.
- ## Moving Forward
	- Transitioning your students from a blocks-based environment like Scratch to "authentic" developement environments is actually not about the blocks. It's about what the students are thinking of when they write their instructions - are they thinking of programming a scratch animation? or are they aware that they are directly programming the computer and it's memory system?
	- If students understand this difference and manage to understand (even superficially) how the compiler interprets their instructions, the shift from blocks to text will come naturally as they become more familiar with their programming language's syntax and more competent reading, writing & typing.
	- Your challenge as an educator is to guide your students through this conceptual shift from programming an animation to programming the computer's memory, to find the right programming environment & study tools, and to help them transition from blocks to text at their own pace while working on interesting data-focused projects.