- [JS for Open Computing Education](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019) is something I made in 2019 with big ideas about accessibly open-sourced computing education. It is many things:
  - a conference presentation: [slides](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019), [video](https://video.fosdem.org/2019/H.1308/js_teaching_tool.mp4)
  - an exploration form and medium. How could I use a github repository and gh-pages hosting to publish and essay, examples and slides in one place? Besides curiosity, this was practice for organizing [open research]([[Open Science]]) and [education]([[Open Education]])
  - a public statement of what I wanted to work towards over the next several years. that future is now
- _disclaimers_:
  - I wrote this before having a more realistic idea how to program, teach, or manage a school. The big ideas are there but many of the details (especially the code) are off-kilter
  - many of the links to examples are dead - they point to a github org named _Janke Learning_, which has since been supplanted by [[De Nepo]]. Most of the examples have been moved to my personal account ([colevandersWands](https://github.com/colevandersWands)), but you're not missing too much
- I present 5 high-level principles that should underly all open computing education. Here's a quick summary of each:
  id:: 63f606ee-85f7-42d7-aba8-d572e11010f0
  - **[(Intellectual) Honesty](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019#honesty)**: What is the best way to balance the [[Radical Novelty]] of computing with [Rule 6](<((31d213a3-c0b5-42a0-8a14-4c7fee04a285))>)? #question
  - **[Agency](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019#honesty)**: Digital agency should be embedded into the learner & educator's experience by providing educational resources which they can realistically adapt to their circumstances.
    id:: 63f61634-ea81-455e-8194-ff85e62f8b19
  - **[Ownership](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019#ownership)**: Students, teachers, communities and families should feel that their education is theirs. That it covers what is needed for them to thrive in their own context, and is delivered in a mode that complements their lives. For this to be possible, educators should be able to adapt any course to fit their needs with no more technical knowledge than is necessary to teach the course.
  - **[Integration](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019#integ-ration):** Computing education should build a wholistic understanding of the creative & controlling role programming plays at the center of a digital society.
  - **[Preparation](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019#preparation):** Learners completing an introductory course in computing should be better prepared to take their next step in life, should that be deeper into programming or not.
- And 5 design principles that can be used when developing open educational resources:
  - **[[Explicitly Teach the Implicit]]**: ((6400a95d-d257-4d51-b4f9-a7282db36262)) }}
  - **[[Process Over Product]]**: ((6400a984-31da-4801-925e-1ceb534b20f3)) }}
  - **[[Context is Content]]:** ((6400a99f-72f7-43a6-9366-df9772399d0c)) }}
  - **[[Full Complexity, Max Simplicity]]:** ((6400a9de-dfca-4cfc-9ca7-b370fe991573)) }}
    id:: 63f61857-0ce6-46eb-b3c1-cb781ad2b71d
  - **[[Open Source]] !== [[Open Education]]:** [[Open Educational Resource]]s can have an [[Open License]] but not support open education if it's _unrealistic_ for a learner or educator to adapt the resources to their needs. On the flip side, resources with closed source or licenses can support open education if a learner or educator _can_ adapt them to their needs. The gold standard for computing education should be resources that fully satisfy both definitions of "open" - Accessibly Open Sourced Educational Resources.
    id:: 63f61887-d67b-4632-91d9-9b7ed2f1c0ff
  -
-
- JS for Open CE is the seed for much of my current work including:
  - an [early diagram](https://github.com/colevandersWands/fosdem-2019/blob/master/rhetorical-situation.png) of the [[Rhetorics of Programming]]
  - [[Context First]] curriculum design can be traced back to [[Process Over Product]]
  - [[Full Complexity, Max Simplicity]] let to the [[Rhetorics of Programming]], the [[Spiderweb Curriculum]], and [[De Nepo Web Dev -- very WIP]]
  - [[Context is Content]] is one of the core design principles behind [[Study Lenses]] and [[as Code/Learning]]
  - _(Intellectual) Honesty_ eventually led to a style of example code designed to isolate [language concepts]([[Connections are Concepts]]) and to be studied in the debugger. It also led to many features in [[Study Lenses]] and [[Module/Inside JS]]
  - [[Process Over Product]] & [[Explicitly Teach the Implicit]] guided the high-level and low-level design of [[Module/Welcome to JS]] and [[Module/Inside JS]]
  - ... more, if I come back to finish this list later
  -
  -
  -
